"Chapter I: Down the Rabbit-Hole"
"Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice she had peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in it."
alice "(And what is the use of a book without pictures or conversations?)"
"So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could, for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her."
"There was nothing so very remarkable in that; nor did Alice think it so very much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself:"
rabbit "Oh dear! Oh dear! I shall be too late!"
"(When she thought it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural)"
"But when the Rabbit actually took a watch out of its waistcoat-pocket, and looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to take out of it."
"Burning with curiosity, she ran across the field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge."
"In another moment down went Alice after it, never once considering how in the world she was to get out again."
"The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way."
"And then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself falling down a very deep well."
"Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to wonder what was going to happen next."
"First, she tried to look down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves; here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs."
"She took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed; it was labelled 'ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great disappointment it was empty: she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing somebody underneath, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she fell past it."
alice "(Well! After such a fall as this, I shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs!)"
alice "(How brave they'll all think me at home!)"
alice "(Why, I wouldn’t say anything about it, even if I fell off the top of the house!)"
"(Which was very likely true)"
"Down, down, down. Would the fall never come to an end?"
alice "I wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time?"
alice "I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth."
alice "Let me see: that would be four thousand miles down, I think—"
"(for, you see, Alice had learnt several things of this sort in her lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not a very good opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there was no one to listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over)"
alice "—yes, that’s about the right distance—but then I wonder what Latitude or Longitude I’ve got to?"
"(Alice had no idea what Latitude was, or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to say)"
"Presently she began again."
alice "I wonder if I shall fall right through the earth! How funny it’ll seem to come out among the people that walk with their heads downward! The Antipathies, I think—"
"(she was rather glad there was no one listening, this time, as it didn’t sound at all the right word)"
alice "—but I shall have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know. Please, Ma’am, is this New Zealand or Australia?"
"(and she tried to curtsey as she spoke—fancy curtseying as you’re falling through the air! Do you think you could manage it?)"
alice "And what an ignorant little girl she’ll think me for asking! No, it’ll never do to ask: perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere."
"Down, down, down."
"There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon began talking again."
alice "Dinah’ll miss me very much to-night, I should think!"
"(Dinah was the cat)"
alice "I hope they’ll remember her saucer of milk at tea-time. Dinah my dear! I wish you were down here with me!"
alice "There are no mice in the air, I’m afraid, but you might catch a bat, and that’s very like a mouse, you know."
alice "But do cats eat bats, I wonder?"
"And here Alice began to get rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of way:"
alice "Do cats eat bats? Do cats eat bats?"
"And sometimes"
alice "Do bats eat cats?"
"You see, as she couldn’t answer either question, it didn’t much matter which way she put it."
"She felt that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very earnestly:"
alice "Now, Dinah, tell me the truth: did you ever eat a bat?"
"When suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over."
"Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment: she looked up, but it was all dark overhead."
"Before her was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in sight, hurrying down it."
"There was not a moment to be lost: away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it say, as it turned a corner:"
rabbit "Oh my ears and whiskers, how late it's getting!"
"She was close behind it when she turned the corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen."
"She found herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof."
"There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked; and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle, wondering how she was ever to get out again."
"Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key, and Alice’s first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of them."
"However, on the second time round, she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high: she tried the little golden key in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!"
"Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage, not much larger than a rat-hole: she knelt down and looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw."
"How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but she could not even get her head through the doorway."
alice "(And even if my head would go through, it would be of very little use without my shoulders)"
alice "(Oh, how I wish I could shut up like a telescope! I think I could, if I only knew how to begin)"
"For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few things indeed were really impossible."
"There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes: this time she found a little bottle on it."
alice "This certainly was not here before."
"Around the neck of the bottle was a paper label, with the words 'DRINK ME' beautifully printed on it in large letters."
"It was all very well to say 'Drink me', but the wise little Alice was not going to do that in a hurry."
alice "No, I’ll look first and see whether it’s marked 'poison' or not."
"She had read several nice little histories about children who had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant things, all because they would not remember the simple rules their friends had taught them: "
"Such as, that a red-hot poker will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your finger very deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked 'poison', it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or later."
"However, this bottle was not marked 'poison,' so Alice ventured to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished it off."
alice "What a curious feeling! I must be shutting up like a telescope."
"And so it was indeed: she was now only ten inches high, and her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right size for going through the little door into that lovely garden."
"First, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was going to shrink any further: she felt a little nervous about this."
alice "It might end, you know, in my going out altogether, like a candle. I wonder what I should be like then?"
"And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember ever having seen such a thing."
"After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice, when she got to the door, she found she had forgotten the little golden key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she could not possibly reach it: "
"She could see it quite plainly through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and cried."
alice "(Come, there’s no use in crying like that!)"
alice "(I advise you to leave off this minute!)"
"She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people."
alice "(But it’s no use now, to pretend to be two people! Why, there’s hardly enough of me left to make one respectable person!)"
"Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table: she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on which the words 'EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants."
alice "Well, I’ll eat it, and if it makes me grow larger, I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep under the door: so either way I’ll get into the garden, and I don’t care which happens!"
"She ate a little bit." #, and said anxiously to herself: "
alice "(Which way? Which way?)" # anxiously
"She was holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same size: to be sure, this generally happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen, that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the common way."
"So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake."
"Chapter II: The Pool of Tears"
alice "Curiouser and curiouser!"
"(she was so much surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English)"
alice "Now I’m opening out like the largest telescope that ever was!"
alice "Good-bye, feet!"
"(For when she looked down at her feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so far off)"
alice "(Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on your shoes and stockings for you now, dears? I’m sure I shan’t be able!)"
alice "(I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself about you: you must manage the best way you can; —but I must be kind to them, or perhaps they won’t walk the way I want to go!)"
alice "(Let me see: I’ll give them a new pair of boots every Christmas)"
"And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it."
alice "(They must go by the carrier, and how funny it’ll seem, sending presents to one’s own feet! And how odd the directions will look!)"
"Alice’s Right Foot, Esq. Hearthrug, Near the Fender, (with Alice’s love)"
alice "(Oh dear, what nonsense I’m talking!)"
"Just then, her head struck against the roof of the hall: in fact she was now rather more than nine feet high, and she at once took up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door."
"Poor Alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get through was more hopeless than ever: she sat down and began to cry again."
alice "You ought to be ashamed of yourself, a great girl like you, to go on crying in this way! Stop this moment, I tell you!"
"But she went on all the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the hall."
"After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming."
"It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the other:"
"He came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to himself as he came:"
rabbit "Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won’t she be savage if I’ve kept her waiting!"
"Alice felt so desperate that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice:"
alice "If you please, sir—"
"The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard as he could go."
"Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:"
alice "Dear, dear! How queer everything is to-day! And yesterday things went on just as usual."
alice "I wonder if I’ve been changed in the night? Let me think:"
alice "Was I the same when I got up this morning? I almost think I can remember feeling a little different."
alice "But if I’m not the same, the next question is, Who in the world am I? Ah, that’s the great puzzle!"
"And she began thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of them."
alice "I’m sure I’m not Ada, for her hair goes in such long ringlets, and mine doesn’t go in ringlets at all; and I’m sure I can’t be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she, oh! she knows such a very little! Besides, she’s she, and I’m I, and—oh dear, how puzzling it all is!"
alice "I’ll try if I know all the things I used to know. Let me see: four times five is twelve, and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is—oh dear! I shall never get to twenty at that rate!"
alice "However, the Multiplication Table doesn’t signify: let’s try Geography. London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome, and Rome—no, that’s all wrong, I’m certain!"
alice "I must have been changed for Mabel! I’ll try and say 'How doth the little—'"
"And she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons, and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:"
alice "How doth the little crocodileImprove his shining tail,And pour the waters of the NileOn every golden scale!"
alice "How cheerfully he seems to grin,How neatly spread his claws,And welcome little fishes inWith gently smiling jaws!"
alice "I’m sure those are not the right words."
alice "I must be Mabel after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh!"
alice "Ever so many lessons to learn! No, I’ve made up my mind about it; if I’m Mabel, I’ll stay down here!"
alice "It’ll be no use their putting their heads down and saying 'Come up again, dear!' I shall only look up and say 'Who am I then?'"
alice "'Tell me that first, and then, if I like being that person, I’ll come up: if not, I’ll stay down here till I’m somebody else' —but, oh dear!"
alice "I do wish they would put their heads down! I am so very tired of being all alone here!"
"As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit’s little white kid gloves while she was talking."
alice "How can I have done that?"
alice "I must be growing small again."
"She got up and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that, as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high, and was going on shrinking rapidly:"
"She soon found out that the cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether."
alice "That was a narrow escape!"
"She was a good deal frightened at the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in existence."
alice "And now for the garden!"
"And she ran with all speed back to the little door: but, alas! the little door was shut again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as before."
"As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another moment, splash!"
"She was up to her chin in salt water."
"Her first idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea."
alice "(And in that case I can go back by railway)"
"(Alice had been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and behind them a railway station)"
"However, she soon made out that she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine feet high."
alice "I wish I hadn’t cried so much!"
"She swam about, trying to find her way out."
alice "I shall be punished for it now, I suppose, by being drowned in my own tears! That will be a queer thing, to be sure! However, everything is queer to-day."
"Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:"
"At first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself."
alice "Would it be of any use, now, to speak to this mouse?"
alice "Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should think very likely it can talk: at any rate, there’s no harm in trying."
"So she began:"
alice "O Mouse, do you know the way out of this pool? I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!"
"(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse: she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having seen in her brother’s Latin Grammar, 'A mouse—of a mouse—to a mouse—a mouse—O mouse!')"
"The Mouse looked at her rather inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes, but it said nothing."
alice "Perhaps it doesn’t understand English, I daresay it’s a French mouse, come over with William the Conqueror."
"(For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened)"
"So she began again:"
alice "Où est ma chatte?"
"Which was the first sentence in her French lesson-book."
"The mouse gave a sudden leap out of the water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright."
alice "Oh, I beg your pardon!"
"She was afraid that she had hurt the poor animal’s feelings."
alice "I quite forgot you didn’t like cats."
mouse "Not like cats!"
mouse "Would you like cats if you were me?"
alice "Well, perhaps not, don’t be angry about it."
alice "And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah: I think you’d take a fancy to cats if you could only see her."
alice "She is such a dear quiet thing."
"Alice went on, half to herself, as she swam lazily about in the pool."
alice "And she sits purring so nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face—and she is such a nice soft thing to nurse—and she’s such a capital one for catching mice—oh, I beg your pardon!"
"This time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt certain it must be really offended."
alice "We won’t talk about her any more if you’d rather not."
mouse "We indeed!"
"The mouse was trembling down to the end of its tail."
mouse "As if I would talk on such a subject! Our family always hated cats: nasty, low, vulgar things! Don’t let me hear the name again!"
alice "I won’t indeed!"
"Alice was in a great hurry to change the subject of conversation."
alice "Are you—are you fond—of—of dogs?"
"The mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:"
alice "There is such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!"
alice "A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly brown hair!"
alice "And it’ll fetch things when you throw them, and it’ll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things—I can’t remember half of them—and it belongs to a farmer, you know, and he says it’s so useful, it’s worth a hundred pounds!"
alice "He says it kills all the rats and—oh dear!"
"Alice cried in a sorrowful tone."
alice "I’m afraid I’ve offended it again!"
"For the Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and making quite a commotion in the pool as it went."
alice "Mouse dear! Do come back again, and we won’t talk about cats or dogs either, if you don’t like them!"
"When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam slowly back to her: its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice thought), and it said in a low trembling voice:"
mouse "Let us get to the shore, and then I’ll tell you my history, and you’ll understand why it is I hate cats and dogs."
"It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded with the birds and animals that had fallen into it: there were a Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious creatures."
"Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the shore."
"Chapter III: A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale"
"They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the bank—the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and uncomfortable."
"The first question of course was, how to get dry again: they had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with them, as if she had known them all her life."
"Indeed, she had quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky, and would only say:"
lory "I am older than you, and must know better."
"And this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was, and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no more to be said."
"At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among them, called out:"
mouse "Sit down, all of you, and listen to me! I’ll soon make you dry enough!"
"They all sat down at once, in a large ring, with the Mouse in the middle."
"Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very soon."
mouse "Ahem!"
mouse "Are you all ready? This is the driest thing I know."
mouse "Silence all round, if you please!"
mouse "'William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest."
mouse "Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria—'"
lory "Ugh!"
mouse "I beg your pardon!"
mouse "Did you speak?"
lory "Not I!"
mouse "I thought you did, —I proceed."
mouse "'Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him: and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found it advisable—'"
duck "Found what?"
mouse "Found it, of course you know what 'it' means."
duck "I know what 'it' means well enough, when I find a thing, it’s generally a frog or a worm. The question is, what did the archbishop find?"
"The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on."
mouse "'—found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William and offer him the crown. William’s conduct at first was moderate. But the insolence of his Normans—'"
"It continued, turning to Alice as it spoke."
mouse "How are you getting on now, my dear?"
alice "As wet as ever, it doesn’t seem to dry me at all."
dodo "In that case, I move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more energetic remedies—"
eaglet "Speak English! I don’t know the meaning of half those long words, and, what’s more, I don’t believe you do either!"
"And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile: some of the other birds tittered audibly."
dodo "What I was going to say, was that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race."
"..."
alice "What is a Caucus-race?"
"Not that she wanted much to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that somebody ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything."
dodo "Why, the best way to explain it is to do it."
"(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it)"
"First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle."
dodo "The exact shape doesn’t matter."
"And then all the party were placed along the course, here and there."
"There was no 'One, two, three, and away', but they began running when they liked, and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know when the race was over."
"..."
"However, when they had been running half an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called out:"
dodo "The race is over!"
"And they all crowded round it, panting, and asking:"
everyone "But who has won?"
"This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare, in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence."
dodo "Everybody has won, and all must have prizes."
everyone "But who is to give the prizes?"
dodo "Why, she, of course."
"Said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her, calling out in a confused way:"
everyone "Prizes! Prizes!"
"Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes."
"There was exactly one a-piece all round."
mouse "But she must have a prize herself, you know."
dodo "Of course. What else have you got in your pocket?"
"The dodo turned to Alice."
alice "Only a thimble."
dodo "Hand it over here."
"Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo solemnly presented the thimble."
dodo "We beg your acceptance of this elegant thimble."
"And, when it had finished this short speech, they all cheered."
"Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble, looking as solemn as she could."
"The next thing was to eat the comfits: this caused some noise and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on the back."
"However, it was over at last, and they sat down again in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more."
alice "You promised to tell me your history, you know."
alice "And why it is you hate—C and D."
"Alice added in a whisper, half afraid that it would be offended again."
mouse "Mine is a long and a sad tale!"
alice "It is a long tail, certainly, but why do you call it sad?"
"She kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so that her idea of the tale was something like this:—"
mouse "Fury said to a mouse, That he met in the house.‘Let us both go to law:  I will prosecute YOU. —Come, I’ll take no denial;  We must have a trial: For really this morning I’ve nothing to do.’  Said the mouse to the cur, ‘Such a trial,"
mouse "dear Sir,  With no jury or judge,   would be wasting our breath.’  ‘I’ll be judge, I’ll be jury’  Said cunning old Fury: ‘I’ll try the whole cause,  and condemn you to death.’"
mouse "You are not attending!"
mouse "What are you thinking of?"
alice "I beg your pardon, you had got to the fifth bend, I think?"
mouse "I had not!" # cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.
alice "A knot!" # said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and looking anxiously about her.
alice "Oh, do let me help to undo it!"
mouse "I shall do nothing of the sort."
"The Mouse got up and walked away."
mouse "You insult me by talking such nonsense!"
alice "I didn’t mean it! But you’re so easily offended, you know!"
"The Mouse only growled in reply."
alice "Please come back and finish your story!"
everyone "Yes, please do!"
"But the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little quicker."
lory "What a pity it wouldn’t stay!"
"Sighed the Lory, as soon as it was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of saying to her daughter:"
old_crab "Ah, my dear! Let this be a lesson to you never to lose your temper!"
young_crab "Hold your tongue, Ma! You’re enough to try the patience of an oyster!"
alice "I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!"
alice "She’d soon fetch it back!"
lory "And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?"
alice "Dinah’s our cat. And she’s such a capital one for catching mice you can’t think! And oh, I wish you could see her after the birds! Why, she’ll eat a little bird as soon as look at it!"
"This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party. Some of the birds hurried off at once: one old Magpie began wrapping itself up very carefully"
magpie "I really must be getting home; the night-air doesn’t suit my throat!"
"And a Canary called out in a trembling voice to its children:"
canary "Come away, my dears! It’s high time you were all in bed!"
"On various pretexts they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone."
alice "(I wish I hadn’t mentioned Dinah!)"
alice "(Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I’m sure she’s the best cat in the world!)"
alice "(Oh, my dear Dinah! I wonder if I shall ever see you any more!)"
"And here poor Alice began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited."
"In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to finish his story."
"Chapter IV: The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill"
"It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something." #; and she heard it muttering to itself:"
"Alice guessed in a moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were nowhere to be seen—everything seemed to have changed since her swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and the little door, had vanished completely."
"Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about." # , and called out to her in an angry tone"
rabbit "*angry* Why, Mary Ann, what are you doing out here? Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan! Quick, now!"
"And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without trying to explain the mistake it had made."
alice "(He took me for his housemaid. How surprised he’ll be when he finds out who I am! But I’d better take him his fan and gloves—that is, if I can find them)"
"As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door of which was a bright brass plate with the name 'W. RABBIT' engraved upon it."
"She went in without knocking, and hurried upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann, and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and gloves."
alice "(How queer it seems, to be going messages for a rabbit! I suppose Dinah’ll be sending me on messages next!)"
"And she began fancying the sort of thing that would happen:"
alice "('Miss Alice! Come here directly, and get ready for your walk!' 'Coming in a minute, nurse! But I’ve got to see that the mouse doesn’t get out.')"
alice "(Only I don’t think, that they’d let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering people about like that!)"
"By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:"
"She took up the fan and a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-glass."
"There was no label this time with the words 'DRINK ME', but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips."
alice "(I know something interesting is sure to happen, whenever I eat or drink anything; so I’ll just see what this bottle does)"
alice "(I do hope it’ll make me grow large again, for really I’m quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!)"
"It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected: before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being broken."
"She hastily put down the bottle."
alice "(That’s quite enough—I hope I shan’t grow any more—As it is, I can’t get out at the door—I do wish I hadn’t drunk quite so much!)"
"Alas! it was too late to wish that! She went on growing, and growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:"
"In another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the other arm curled round her head."
"Still she went on growing, and, as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one foot up the chimney."
alice "(Now I can do no more, whatever happens. What will become of me?)"
"Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full effect, and she grew no larger:"
"Still it was very uncomfortable, and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy."
alice "(It was much pleasanter at home, when one wasn’t always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about by mice and rabbits)"
alice "(I almost wish I hadn’t gone down that rabbit-hole—and yet—and yet—it’s rather curious, you know, this sort of life!)"
alice "(I do wonder what can have happened to me! When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!)"
alice "(There ought to be a book written about me, that there ought! And when I grow up, I’ll write one—but I’m grown up now, at least there’s no room to grow up any more here)"
alice "(But then, shall I never get any older than I am now? That’ll be a comfort, one way—never to be an old woman—but then—always to have lessons to learn! Oh, I shouldn’t like that!)"
alice "(Oh, you foolish Alice!)"
alice "(How can you learn lessons in here?)"
alice "(Why, there’s hardly room for you, and no room at all for any lesson-books!)"
"And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other, and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen."
rabbit "Mary Ann! Mary Ann!"
rabbit "Fetch me my gloves this moment!"
"Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs."
"Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no reason to be afraid of it."
"Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it; but, as the door opened inwards, and Alice’s elbow was pressed hard against it, that attempt proved a failure."
rabbit "Then I’ll go round and get in at the window."
alice "(That you won’t!)"
"After waiting till she fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window."
"She suddenly spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air."
"She did not get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall, and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something of the sort."
"Next came an angry voice—"
rabbit "Pat! Pat! Where are you?"
"And then a voice she had never heard before:"
pat "Sure then I’m here! Digging for apples, yer honour!"
rabbit "Digging for apples, indeed!"
rabbit "Here! Come and help me out of this!"
"..."
"(Sounds of more broken glass)"
rabbit "Now tell me, Pat, what’s that in the window?"
pat "Sure, it’s an arrumm, yer honour!"
rabbit "An arm, you goose! Who ever saw one that size? Why, it fills the whole window!"
pat "Sure, it does, yer honour: but it’s an arm for all that."
rabbit "Well, it’s got no business there, at any rate: go and take it away!"
"There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear whispers now and then; such as:"
pat "Sure, I don’t like it, yer honour, at all, at all!"
rabbit "Do as I tell you, you coward!"
"And at last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in the air."
"This time there were two little shrieks, and more sounds of broken glass."
alice "(What a number of cucumber-frames there must be!)"
alice "(I wonder what they’ll do next! As for pulling me out of the window, I only wish they could! I’m sure I don’t want to stay in here any longer!)"
"She waited for some time without hearing anything more: at last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a good many voices all talking together:"
anon "Where’s the other ladder?" # A
anon "Why, I hadn’t to bring but one; Bill’s got the other." # B
anon "Bill! fetch it here, lad!" # A
anon "Here, put 'em up at this corner." # B
anon "No, tie 'em together first—they don’t reach half high enough yet" # A
anon "Oh! they’ll do well enough; don’t be particular." # C
anon "Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope." # A
anon "Will the roof bear?" # C
anon "Mind that loose slate." # B
anon "Oh, it’s coming down! Heads below!" # A
anon "Now, who did that?" # A
anon "It was Bill, I fancy." # B
anon "Who’s to go down the chimney?" # C
anon "Nay, I shan’t! You do it!" # B
anon "That I won’t, then!" # C
anon "Bill’s to go down." # A
anon "Here, Bill! the master says you’re to go down the chimney!" # B
alice "(Oh! So Bill’s got to come down the chimney, has he?)"
alice "(Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill! I wouldn’t be in Bill’s place for a good deal: this fireplace is narrow, to be sure; but I think I can kick a little!)"
"She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn’t guess of what sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above her:"
alice "(This is Bill!)"
"She gave one sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next."
"The first thing she heard was a general chorus of:"
everyone "There goes Bill!"
"Then the Rabbit’s voice along—"
rabbit "Catch him, you by the hedge!"
"..."
"Then silence, and then another confusion of voices—"
anon "Hold up his head." # A
anon "Brandy now." # B
anon "Don’t choke him." # C
anon "How was it, old fellow? What happened to you? Tell us all about it!" # A
"Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice:"
bill "Well, I hardly know—No more, thank ye; I’m better now—but I’m a deal too flustered to tell you—all I know is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes like a sky-rocket!"
anon "So you did, old fellow!" # B
rabbit "We must burn the house down!"
"Alice called out as loud as she could:"
alice "If you do, I’ll set Dinah at you!"
"..."
"There was a dead silence instantly."
alice "(I wonder what they will do next! If they had any sense, they’d take the roof off)"
"After a minute or two, they began moving about again."
rabbit "A barrowful will do, to begin with."
alice "(A barrowful of what?)"
"She had not long to doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face."
alice "(I’ll put a stop to this)"
alice "You’d better not do that again!"
"Which produced another dead silence."
"Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright idea came into her head."
alice "(If I eat one of these cakes, it’s sure to make some change in my size; and as it can’t possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I suppose)"
"So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find that she began shrinking directly."
"As soon as she was small enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside."
"The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle."
"They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared; but she ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in a thick wood."
alice "The first thing I’ve got to do, is to grow to my right size again; and the second thing is, to find my way into that lovely garden."
alice "I think that will be the best plan."
"It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and simply arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the smallest idea how to set about it; and while she was peering about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over her head made her look up in a great hurry."
"An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her."
alice "Poor little thing!"
"She tried hard to whistle to it; but she was terribly frightened all the time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing."
"Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight, and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it."
"Then Alice dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from being run over; and the moment she appeared on the other side, the puppy made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in its hurry to get hold of it."
"Then Alice, thinking it was very like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle again."
"Then the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick, running a very little way forwards each time and a long way back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat down a good way off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of its mouth, and its great eyes half shut."
"This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape; so she set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out of breath, and till the puppy’s bark sounded quite faint in the distance."
alice "And yet what a dear little puppy it was!"
"She leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself with one of the leaves:"
alice "I should have liked teaching it tricks very much, if—if I’d only been the right size to do it!"
alice "Oh dear! I’d nearly forgotten that I’ve got to grow up again!"
alice "Let me see—how is it to be managed?"
alice "I suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other; but the great question is, what?"
"The great question certainly was, what?"
"Alice looked all round her at the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see anything that looked like the right thing to eat or drink under the circumstances."
"There was a large mushroom growing near her, about the same height as herself; and when she had looked under it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred to her that she might as well look and see what was on the top of it."
"She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of the mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded, quietly smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice of her or of anything else."
"Chapter V: Advice from a Caterpillar"
"The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in silence: at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth, and addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice."
caterpillar "Who are you?"
"This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation."
alice "I—I hardly know, sir, just at present—at least I know who I was when I got up this morning, but I think I must have been changed several times since then."
caterpillar "What do you mean by that?"
caterpillar "Explain yourself!"
alice "I can’t explain myself, I’m afraid, sir, because I’m not myself, you see."
caterpillar "I don’t see."
alice "I’m afraid I can’t put it more clearly, for I can’t understand it myself to begin with; and being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing."
caterpillar "It isn’t."
alice "Well, perhaps you haven’t found it so yet, but when you have to turn into a chrysalis—you will some day, you know—and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you’ll feel it a little queer, won’t you?"
caterpillar "Not a bit."
alice "Well, perhaps your feelings may be different. All I know is, it would feel very queer to me."
caterpillar "You!" # said the Caterpillar contemptuously.
caterpillar "Who are you?"
"Which brought them back again to the beginning of the conversation."
"Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar’s making such very short remarks, and she drew herself up and said, very gravely:"
alice "I think, you ought to tell me who you are, first."
caterpillar "Why?"
"Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not think of any good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in a very unpleasant state of mind, she turned away."
caterpillar "Come back!"
caterpillar "I’ve something important to say!"
"This sounded promising, certainly: Alice turned and came back again."
caterpillar "Keep your temper."
"..."
alice "Is that all?"
"Alice swallowed down her anger as well as she could."
caterpillar "No."
"Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else to do, and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth hearing."
"..."
"For some minutes it puffed away without speaking, but at last it unfolded its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth again."
caterpillar "So you think you’re changed, do you?"
alice "I’m afraid I am, sir."
alice "I can’t remember things as I used—and I don’t keep the same size for ten minutes together!"
caterpillar "Can’t remember what things?"
alice "Well, I’ve tried to say 'How doth the little busy bee', but it all came different!"
caterpillar "Repeat, 'You are old, Father William.'"
"Alice folded her hands, and began:"
alice "'You are old, Father William',the young man said,And your hair has become very white;And yet you incessantly stand on your head—Do you think, at your age, it is right?'"
alice "'In my youth',Father William replied to his son,'I feared it might injure the brain;But, now that I’m perfectly sure I have none,Why, I do it again and again.'"
alice "'You are old', said the youth,'as I mentioned before,And have grown most uncommonly fat;Yet you turned a back-somersaultin at the door—Pray, what is the reason of that?'"
alice "'In my youth', said the sage,as he shook his grey locks,'I kept all my limbs very suppleBy the use of this ointment—one shilling the box—Allow me to sell you a couple?'"
alice "'You are old', said the youth,'and your jaws are too weakFor anything tougher than suet;Yet you finished the goose,Rwith the bones and the beak—Pray how did you manage to do it?'"
alice "'In my youth', said his father, 'I took to the law,And argued each case with my wife;And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,Has lasted the rest of my life.'"
alice "'You are old', said the youth, 'one would hardly supposeThat your eye was as steady as ever;Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose—What made you so awfully clever?'"
alice "'I have answered three questions, and that is enough',Said his father; 'don’t give yourself airs!Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?Be off, or I’ll kick you down stairs!'"
caterpillar "That is not said right."
alice "Not quite right, I’m afraid." # said alice timidly;
alice "Some of the words have got altered."
caterpillar "It is wrong from beginning to end."
"..."
"And there was silence for some minutes."
caterpillar "What size do you want to be?"
alice "Oh, I’m not particular as to size, only one doesn’t like changing so often, you know."
caterpillar "I don’t know."
"Alice said nothing: she had never been so much contradicted in all her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper."
caterpillar "Are you content now?"
alice "Well, I should like to be a little larger, sir, if you wouldn’t mind."
alice "Three inches is such a wretched height to be."
caterpillar "It is a very good height indeed!"
"Said the Caterpillar angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three inches high)"
alice "But I’m not used to it!"
"Pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone. And she thought of herself:"
alice "I wish the creatures wouldn’t be so easily offended!"
caterpillar "You’ll get used to it in time."
"The caterpillar put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again."
"This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again."
"In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself."
"Then it got down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass."
caterpillar "One side will make you grow taller, and the other side will make you grow shorter."
alice "One side of what? The other side of what?"
caterpillar "Of the mushroom."
"In another moment it was out of sight."
"Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and as it was perfectly round, she found this a very difficult question."
"However, at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand."
alice "And now which is which?"
"She nibbled a little of the right-hand bit to try the effect:"
"The next moment she felt a violent blow underneath her chin: it had struck her foot!"
"She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking rapidly; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit."
"Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot, that there was hardly room to open her mouth; but she did it at last, and managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit."
alice "Come, my head’s free at last!"
"Alice was delighted, which changed into alarm in another moment, when she found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found: all she could see, when she looked down, was an immense length of neck, which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay far below her."
alice "What can all that green stuff be?"
alice "And where have my shoulders got to?"
alice "And oh, my poor hands, how is it I can’t see you?"
"She was moving them about as she spoke, but no result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the distant green leaves."
"As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction, like a serpent."
"She had just succeeded in curving it down into a graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the leaves, which she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a hurry: a large pigeon had flown into her face, and was beating her violently with its wings."
pigeon "Serpent!"
alice "I’m not a serpent! Let me alone!"
pigeon "Serpent, I say again!"
pigeon "I’ve tried every way, and nothing seems to suit them!"
alice "I haven’t the least idea what you’re talking about."
pigeon "I’ve tried the roots of trees, and I’ve tried banks, and I’ve tried hedges, but those serpents! There’s no pleasing them!"
"Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no use in saying anything more till the pigeon had finished."
pigeon "As if it wasn’t trouble enough hatching the eggs, but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and day!"
pigeon "Why, I haven’t had a wink of sleep these three weeks!"
alice "I’m very sorry you’ve been annoyed."
pigeon "And just as I’d taken the highest tree in the wood, and just as I was thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come wriggling down from the sky! Ugh, Serpent!" # ontinued the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek
alice "But I’m not a serpent, I tell you!"
alice "I’m a—I’m a—"
pigeon "Well! What are you?"
pigeon "I can see you’re trying to invent something!"
alice "I—I’m a little girl..."
"Said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day."
pigeon "A likely story indeed!"
pigeon "I’ve seen a good many little girls in my time, but never one with such a neck as that!"
pigeon "No, no! You’re a serpent; and there’s no use denying it."
pigeon "I suppose you’ll be telling me next that you never tasted an egg!"
alice "I have tasted eggs, certainly, but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do, you know."
pigeon "I don’t believe it, but if they do, why then they’re a kind of serpent, that’s all I can say."
"This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent for a minute or two."
"..."
pigeon "You’re looking for eggs, I know that well enough; and what does it matter to me whether you’re a little girl or a serpent?"
alice "It matters a good deal to me, but I’m not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn’t want yours: I don’t like them raw."
pigeon "Well, be off, then!"
"Alice crouched down among the trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and untwist it."
"After a while she remembered that she still held the pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height."
"It was so long since she had been anything near the right size, that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual."
alice "Come, there’s half my plan done now!"
alice "How puzzling all these changes are!"
alice "I’m never sure what I’m going to be, from one minute to another!"
alice "However, I’ve got back to my right size: the next thing is, to get into that beautiful garden—how is that to be done, I wonder?"
"She came suddenly upon an open place, with a little house in it about four feet high."
alice "Whoever lives there, it’ll never do to come upon them this size: why, I should frighten them out of their wits!"
"So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself down to nine inches high."
"Chapter VI: Pig and Pepper"
"For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came running out of the wood—(she considered him to be a footman because he was in livery: otherwise, judging by his face only, she would have called him a fish)—and rapped loudly at the door with his knuckles."
"It was opened by another footman in livery, with a round face, and large eyes like a frog; and both footmen, Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their heads."
"She felt very curious to know what it was all about, and crept a little way out of the wood to listen."
"The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great letter, nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to the other, saying, in a solemn tone:"
fishfoot "For the Duchess. An invitation from the Queen to play croquet."
"The Frog-Footman repeated, in the same solemn tone, only changing the order of the words a little:"
frogfoot "From the Queen. An invitation for the Duchess to play croquet."
"Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled together."
"Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into the wood for fear of their hearing her."
"And when she next peeped out the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the sky."
"Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked."
frogfoot "There’s no sort of use in knocking, and that for two reasons. First, because I’m on the same side of the door as you are; secondly, because they’re making such a noise inside, no one could possibly hear you."
"And certainly there was a most extraordinary noise going on within—a constant howling and sneezing, and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish or kettle had been broken to pieces."
alice "Please, then, how am I to get in?"
frogfoot "There might be some sense in your knocking, if we had the door between us. For instance, if you were inside, you might knock, and I could let you out, you know."
"He was looking up into the sky all the time he was speaking, and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil."
alice "(But perhaps he can’t help it, his eyes are so very nearly at the top of his head. But at any rate he might answer questions)"
alice "*loud* How am I to get in?"
frogfoot "I shall sit here, till tomorrow—"
"At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate came skimming out, straight at the Footman’s head: it just grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind him."
frogfoot "—or next day, maybe."
alice "*louder* How am I to get in?" # asked Alice again, in a louder tone.
frogfoot "Are you to get in at all? That’s the first question, you know."
"It was, no doubt: only Alice did not like to be told so."
alice "(It’s really dreadful, the way all the creatures argue. It’s enough to drive one crazy!)"
"The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his remark, with variations."
frogfoot "I shall sit here, on and off, for days and days."
alice "But what am I to do?"
frogfoot "Anything you like." # said the Footman, and began whistling.
alice "Oh, there’s no use in talking to him, he’s perfectly idiotic!"
"And she opened the door and went in."
"The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of smoke from one end to the other: the Duchess was sitting on a three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to be full of soup."
alice "(There’s certainly too much pepper in that soup!)" # Alice said to herself, as well as she could for sneezing.
"There was certainly too much of it in the air. Even the Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was sneezing and howling alternately without a moment’s pause."
"The only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook, and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from ear to ear."
alice "Please would you tell me, why your cat grins like that?" # said Alice, a little timidly, for she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to speak first
duchess "It’s a Cheshire cat, and that’s why. Pig!"
"She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice quite jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on again:"
alice "I didn’t know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I didn’t know that cats could grin."
duchess "They all can, and most of ’em do."
alice "I don’t know of any that do."
"Alice said very politely, feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation."
duchess "You don’t know much, and that’s a fact."
"Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought it would be as well to introduce some other subject of conversation."
"While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby—the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans, plates, and dishes."
"The Duchess took no notice of them even when they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not."
alice "Oh, please mind what you’re doing!"
"Alice was jumping up and down in an agony of terror."#
alice "Oh, there goes his precious nose..."
"An unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very nearly carried it off."
duchess "If everybody minded their own business, the world would go round a deal faster than it does." # the Duchess said in a hoarse growl, "
alice "Which would not be an advantage. Just think what work it would make with the day and night! You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn round on its axis—"
duchess "Talking of axes, chop off her head!"
"Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and seemed not to be listening, so she went on again:"
alice "Twenty-four hours, I think; or is it twelve? I—"
duchess "Oh, don’t bother me, I never could abide figures!"
"And with that she began nursing her child again, singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a violent shake at the end of every line:"
duchess "Speak roughly to your little boy,And beat him when he sneezes:He only does it to annoy,Because he knows it teases."
everyone "Wow! wow! wow!"
"While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:"
duchess "I speak severely to my boy,I beat him when he sneezes;For he can thoroughly enjoyThe pepper when he pleases!"
everyone "Wow! wow! wow!"
duchess "Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!"
"The Duchess said to Alice, flinging the baby at her as she spoke."
duchess "I must go and get ready to play croquet with the Queen."
"The duchess hurried out of the room."
"The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out, but it just missed her."
"Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all directions."
alice "Just like a star-fish."
"The poor little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it, and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again, so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much as she could do to hold it."
"As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it, (which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its undoing itself,) she carried it out into the open air."
alice "(If I don’t take this child away with me, they’re sure to kill it in a day or two)"
alice "Wouldn’t it be murder to leave it behind?"
"The little thing grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time)"
alice "Don’t grunt, that’s not at all a proper way of expressing yourself."
"The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into its face to see what was the matter with it."
"There could be no doubt that it had a very turn-up nose, much more like a snout than a real nose; also not like the look of the thing at all."
alice "But perhaps it was only sobbing."
"She looked into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears."
"No, there were no tears."
alice "If you’re going to turn into a pig, my dear, I’ll have nothing more to do with you. Mind now!"
"The poor little thing sobbed again (or grunted, it was impossible to say which), and they went on for some while in silence."
alice "Now, what am I to do with this creature when I get it home?"
"Then it grunted again, so violently, that she looked down into its face in some alarm."
"This time there could be no mistake about it: it was neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be quite absurd for her to carry it further."
"So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to see it trot away quietly into the wood."
alice "If it had grown up, it would have made a dreadfully ugly child: but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think."
"And she began thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as pigs."
alice "If one only knew the right way to change them—"
"She got a little startled by seeing the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off."
"The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice."
"It looked good-natured, she thought: still it had very long claws and a great many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect."
alice "*timidly* Cheshire Puss..."
"She did not at all know whether it would like the name: however, it only grinned a little wider."
alice "Come, it’s pleased so far."
alice "Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?"
cat "That depends a good deal on where you want to get to."
alice "I don’t much care where—"
cat "Then it doesn’t matter which way you go."
alice "—so long as I get somewhere."
cat "Oh, you’re sure to do that, if you only walk long enough."
"Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another question."
alice "What sort of people live about here?"
cat "In that direction, lives a Hatter: and in that direction, lives a March Hare. Visit either you like: they’re both mad."
alice "But I don’t want to go among mad people."
cat "Oh, you can’t help that. We’re all mad here. I’m mad. You’re mad."
alice "How do you know I’m mad?"
cat "You must be, or you wouldn’t have come here."
"Alice didn’t think that proved it at all; however, she went on:"
alice "And how do you know that you’re mad?"
cat "To begin with, a dog’s not mad. You grant that?"
alice "I suppose so."
cat "Well, then, you see, a dog growls when it’s angry, and wags its tail when it’s pleased. Now I growl when I’m pleased, and wag my tail when I’m angry. Therefore I’m mad."
alice "I call it purring, not growling."
cat "Call it what you like."
cat "Do you play croquet with the Queen today?"
alice "I should like it very much, but I haven’t been invited yet."
cat "You’ll see me there."
"The Cat vanished."
"Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used to queer things happening."
"While she was looking at the place where it had been, it suddenly appeared  again." # the cat appeared again
cat "By the way, what became of the baby?"
cat "I’d nearly forgotten to ask."
alice "It turned into a pig."
cat "I thought it would." # said the cat and VANISHED again
"The Cat vanished again."
"Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it did not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the direction in which the March Hare was said to live."
alice "I’ve seen hatters before, the  March Hare will be much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won’t be raving mad—at least not so mad as it was in March."
"As she said this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a branch of a tree."
cat "Did you say pig, or fig?"
alice "I said pig, and I wish you wouldn’t keep appearing and vanishing so suddenly: you make one quite giddy."
cat "All right."
"This time it vanished quite slowly, beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the grin, which remained some time after the rest of it had gone."
alice "Well! I’ve often seen a cat without a grin, but a grin without a cat! It’s the most curious thing I ever saw in my life!"
"She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the house of the March Hare: she thought it must be the right house, because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was thatched with fur."
"It was so large a house, that she did not like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand bit of mushroom, and raised herself to about two feet high: even then she walked up towards it rather timidly."
alice "Suppose it should be raving mad after all! I almost wish I’d gone to see the Hatter instead!"
"Chapter VII: A Mad Tea-Party"
"There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house, and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it: a Dormouse was sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other two were using it as a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and talking over its head."
alice "(Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse, only, as it’s asleep, I suppose it doesn’t mind)"
"The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded together at one corner of it."
everyone "No room! No room!"
alice "There’s plenty of room!"
"She sat down in a large arm-chair at one end of the table."
hare "Have some wine."
"Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it but tea."
alice "I don’t see any wine."
hare "There isn’t any."
alice "Then it wasn’t very civil of you to offer it." # said Alice angrily
hare "It wasn’t very civil of you to sit down without being invited."
alice "I didn’t know it was your table, it’s laid for a great many more than three."
hatter "Your hair wants cutting."
"He had been looking at Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was his first speech."
alice "You should learn not to make personal remarks, it’s very rude."
"The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this." # ; but all he said was"
hatter "Why is a raven like a writing-desk?"
alice "(Come, we shall have some fun now! I’m glad they’ve begun asking riddles)"
alice "I believe I can guess that."
hare "Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?"
alice "Exactly so."
hare "Then you should say what you mean."
alice "I do, at least—at least I mean what I say—that’s the same thing, you know."
hatter "Not the same thing a bit! Why, you might just as well say that ‘I see what I eat’ is the same thing as ‘I eat what I see’!"
hare "You might just as well say, that ‘I like what I get’ is the same thing as ‘I get what I like’!"
dormouse "You might just as well say, that ‘I breathe when I sleep’ is the same thing as ‘I sleep when I breathe’!"
hatter "It is the same thing with you."
"And here the conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute, while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and writing-desks, which wasn’t much."
"The hatter was the first to break the silence."
hatter "What day of month is it?"
"He had taken his watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking it every now and then, and holding it to his ear." # turning to alice
"Alice considered it a little..."
alice "The fourth."
hatter "Two days wrong!"
"He looked angrily at the March Hare."
hatter "I told you butter wouldn’t suit the works!"
hare "It was the best butter."
hatter "Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well, you shouldn’t have put it in with the bread-knife."
"The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily: then he dipped it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again: but he could think of nothing better to say than his first remark."
hare "It was the best butter, you know."
"Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity."
alice "What a funny watch!"
alice "It tells the day of the month, and doesn’t tell what o’clock it is!"
hatter "Why should it?" # muttered the Hatter.
hatter "Does your watch tell you what year it is?"
alice "Of course not, but that’s because it stays the same year for such a long time together."
hatter "Which is just the case with mine."
"Alice felt dreadfully puzzled."
"The Hatter’s remark seemed to have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English."
alice "I don’t quite understand you."
hatter "The Dormouse is asleep again."
"He poured a little hot tea upon its nose."
"The Door-mouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without opening its eyes:"
dormouse "Of course, of course; just what I was going to remark myself."
"The hatter turned to Alice again."
hatter "Have you guessed the riddle yet?"
alice "No, I give it up. What’s the answer?"
hatter "I haven’t the slightest idea."
hare "Nor I."
alice "I think you might do something better with the time, than waste it in asking riddles that have no answers."
hatter "If you knew Time as well as I do, you wouldn’t talk about wasting it. It’s him."
alice "I don’t know what you mean."
hatter "Of course you don’t! I dare say you never even spoke to Time!"
alice "Perhaps not, but I know I have to beat time when I learn music."
hatter "Ah! That accounts for it. He won’t stand beating. Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he’d do almost anything you liked with the clock."
hatter "For instance, suppose it were nine o’clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons: you’d only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the clock in a twinkling! Half-past one, time for dinner!"
hare "(I only with wish it was...)"
alice "That would be grand, certainly, but then—I shouldn’t be hungry for it, you know."
hatter "Not at first, perhaps, but you could keep it to half-past one as long as you liked."
alice "Is that the way you manage?"
"The Hatter shook his head mournfully."
hatter "Not I! We quarrelled last March—just before he went mad, you know—"
"The Hatter pointed with his tea spoon at the March Hare."
hatter "It was at the great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing‘Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!How I wonder what you’re at!’"
hatter "You know the song, perhaps?"
alice "I’ve heard something like it."
hatter "It goes on, you know, in this way:"
hatter "Up above the world you fly,Like a tea-tray in the sky.Twinkle, twinkle—"
"Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep:"
dormouse "Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle—"
"And went on so long that they had to pinch it to make it stop."
hatter "Well, I’d hardly finished the first verse, when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, ‘He’s murdering the time! Off with his head!’"
alice "How dreadfully savage!"
hatter "And ever since that, he won’t do a thing I ask! It’s always six o’clock now."
"A bright idea came into Alice’s head."
alice "Is that the reason so many tea-things are put out here?"
hatter "Yes, that’s it, it’s always tea-time, and we’ve no time to wash the things between whiles."
alice "Then you keep moving round, I suppose?"
hatter "Exactly so, as the things get used up."
alice "But what happens when you come to the beginning again?"
hare "Suppose we change the subject. I’m getting tired of this. I vote the young lady tells us a story."
alice "I’m afraid I don’t know one."
everyone "Then the Dormouse shall! Wake up, Dormouse!"
"And they pinched it on both sides at once."
"The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes."
dormouse "I wasn’t asleep, I heard every word you fellows were saying."
hare "Tell us a story!"
alice "Yes, please do!"
hatter "And be quick about it, or you’ll be asleep again before it’s done."
dormouse "Once upon a time there were three little sisters, and their names were Elsie, Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well—"
alice "What did they live on?"
"Alice always took a great interest in questions of eating and drinking."
dormouse "They lived on treacle."
"..."
alice "They couldn’t have done that, you know, they’d have been ill."
dormouse "So they were, very ill..."
"Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went on:"
alice "But why did they live at the bottom of a well?"
hare "Take some more tea."
alice "I’ve had nothing yet, so I can’t take more."
"Alice replied in an offended tone."
hatter "You mean you can’t take less. It’s very easy to take more than nothing."
alice "Nobody asked your opinion."
hatter "Who’s making personal remarks now?" # the Hatter asked triumphantly.
"Alice did not quite know what to say to this: so she helped herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the Dormouse, and repeated her question."
"The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it."
dormouse "It was a treacle-well."
alice "There’s no such thing!"
"Alice was beginning very angrily, but the Hatter and the March Hare went."
everyone "Sh! sh!"
dormouse "If you can’t be civil, you’d better finish the story for yourself."
alice "No, please go on! I won’t interrupt again. I dare say there may be one."
dormouse "One, indeed!"
dormouse "And so these three little sisters—they were learning to draw, you know—"
alice "What did they draw?"
dormouse "Treacle."
hatter "I want a clean cup, let’s all move one place on."
"He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him: the March Hare moved into the Dormouse’s place, and Alice rather unwillingly took the place of the March Hare. The Hatter was the only one who got any advantage from the change: and Alice was a good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset the milk-jug into his plate."
"Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began very cautiously:"
alice "But I don’t understand. Where did they draw the treacle from?"
hatter "You can draw water out of a water-well, so I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well—eh, stupid?"
alice "But they were in the well."
dormouse "Of course they were, well in."
"This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse go on for some time without interrupting it."
dormouse "They were learning to draw..."
"The Dormouse went on, yawning and rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy."
dormouse "...and they drew all manner of things—everything that begins with an M———"
"..."
alice "Why with an M?"
hare "Why not?"
"Alice was silent."
"The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up again with a little shriek, and went on:"
dormouse "—that begins with an M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness—you know you say things are “much of a muchness”—did you ever see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?"
alice "Really, now you ask me, I don’t think—"
hatter "Then you shouldn’t talk."
"This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear: she got up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that they would call after her: the last time she saw them, they were trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot."
alice "At any rate I’ll never go there again!"
alice "It’s the stupidest tea-party I ever was at in all my life!"
"Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a door leading right into it."
alice "(That’s very curious!)"
alice "(But everything’s curious today. I think I may as well go in at once)"
"And she went in."
"Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the little glass table."
alice "Now, I’ll manage better this time."
"She began by taking the little golden key, and unlocking the door that led into the garden."
"Then she went to work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it in her pocket) till she was about a foot high: then she walked down the little passage: and then—she found herself at last in the beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool fountains."
"Chapter VIII: The Queen's Croquet-Ground"
"A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden: the roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at it, busily painting them red."
"Alice thought this a very curious thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up to them..."
two "Look out now, Five! Don’t go splashing paint over me like that!"
five "I couldn’t help it, Seven jogged my elbow."
seven "That’s right, Five! Always lay the blame on others!"
five "You’d better not talk!"
five "I heard the Queen say only yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!"
two "What for?"
seven "That’s none of your business, Two!"
five "Yes, it is his business! And I’ll tell him—it was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions."
"Seven flung down his brush..."
seven "Well, of all the unjust things—"
"His eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly: the others looked round also, and all of them bowed low."
alice "Would you tell me, why you are painting those roses?"
"Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two."
two "Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to have been a red rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake; and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads cut off, you know."
two "So you see, Miss, we’re doing our best, afore she comes, to—" # "Two began in a low voice,
"At this moment Five, who had been anxiously looking across the garden, called out:"
five "The Queen! The Queen!"
"And the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon their faces."
"There was a sound of many footsteps, and Alice looked round, eager to see the Queen."
"First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and feet at the corners." # 9
"Next the ten courtiers; these were ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the soldiers did." # ace?
"After these came the royal children; there were ten of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand in hand, in couples: they were all ornamented with hearts." # 10 ?
"Next came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among them Alice recognised the White Rabbit: it was talking in a hurried nervous manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without noticing her."
"Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the King’s crown on a crimson velvet cushion."
"And, last of all this grand procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS."
"Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on her face like the three gardeners, but she could not remember ever having heard of such a rule at processions."
alice "(What would be the use of a procession, if people had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldn’t see it?)"
"So she stood still where she was, and waited."
"When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped and looked at her."
queen "Who is this?"
"She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in reply."
queen "Idiot!"
"The Queen tossed her head impatiently and turned to Alice."
queen "What’s your name, child?"
alice "My name is Alice, so please your Majesty." # saif alice politely
alice "(Why, they’re only a pack of cards, after all. I needn’t be afraid of them!)"
queen "And who are these?"
"The Queen pointed to the three gardeners who were lying round the rose-tree; for, you see, as they were lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether they were gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her own children."
alice "How should I know? It’s no business of mine."
"The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her for a moment like a wild beast, screamed:"
queen "Off with her head! Off—"
alice "Nonsense!" #  said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the Queen was silent.
"..."
"The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said:"
king "Consider, my dear: she is only a child!"
"The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave:"
queen "Turn them over!"
"The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot."
queen "Get up!" # said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice,
"The three gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the King, the Queen, the royal children, and everybody else."
queen "Leave off that!" # screamed the Queen.
queen "You make me giddy."
"And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on:"
queen "What have you been doing here?"
two "May it please your Majesty, we were trying—" # said Two, in a very humble tone, going down on one knee as he spoke
queen "I see!"
"The queen had meanwhile been examining the roses."
queen "Off with their heads!"
"And the procession moved on, three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate gardeners, who ran to Alice for protection."
alice "You shan’t be beheaded!"
"Alice put them into a large flower-pot that stood near. "
"The three soldiers wandered about for a minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly marched off after the others."
queen "Are their heads off?"
soldiers "Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!" # shouted in reply
queen "That’s right!" # shouted
queen "Can you play croquet?"
"The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question was evidently meant for her."
alice "Yes!"
queen "Come on, then!" #  roared the Queen
"Alice joined the procession, wondering very much what would happen next."
rabbit "It’s—it’s a very fine day!" # timid voice
"She was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously into her face."
alice "Very, —where’s the Duchess?"
rabbit "Hush! Hush!" # low and hurried tone
"The rabbit looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised himself upon tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and whispered:"
rabbit "She’s under sentence of execution."
alice "What for?"
rabbit "Did you say ‘What a pity!’?"
alice "No, I didn’t, I don’t think it’s at all a pity. I said ‘What for?’"
rabbit "She boxed the Queen’s ears—"
"Alice gave a little scream of laughter."
rabbit "Oh, hush! The Queen will hear you! You see, she came rather late, and the Queen said—"
queen "Get to your places!"
"Shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder, and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up against each other; however, they got settled down in a minute or two, and the game began."
"Alice thought she had never seen such a curious croquet-ground in her life; it was all ridges and furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches."
"The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo: she succeeded in getting its body tucked away, comfortably enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down, but generally, just as she had got its neck nicely straightened out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it would twist itself round and look up in her face, with such a puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing."
"And when she had got its head down, and was going to begin again, it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled itself, and was in the act of crawling away."
"Besides all this, there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the ground, Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed."
"The players all played at once without waiting for turns, quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went stamping about:"
queen "Off with his head!"
"Or"
queen "Off with her head!"
"About once in a minute."
"Alice began to feel very uneasy: to be sure, she had not as yet had any dispute with the Queen, but she knew that it might happen any minute."
alice "(And then, what would become of me? They’re dreadfully fond of beheading people here; the great wonder is, that there’s any one left alive!)"
"She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a curious appearance in the air: it puzzled her very much at first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to be a grin."
alice "(It’s the Cheshire Cat: now I shall have somebody to talk to)"
cat "How are you getting on?" # said the Cat, as soon as there was mouth enough for it to speak with.
"Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded."
alice "(It’s no use speaking to it, till its ears have come, or at least one of them)"
"In another minute the whole head appeared, and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an account of the game, feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her."
"The Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and no more of it appeared."
alice "I don’t think they play at all fairly, and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can’t hear oneself speak—and they don’t seem to have any rules in particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them—"
alice "And you’ve no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive; for instance, there’s the arch I’ve got to go through next walking about at the other end of the ground—and I should have croqueted the Queen’s hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it saw mine coming!"
cat "How do you like the Queen?"
alice "Not at all, she’s so extremely—"
"Just then she noticed that the Queen was close behind her, listening: so she went on:"
alice "—likely to win, that it’s hardly worth while finishing the game."
"The Queen smiled and passed on."
king "Who are you talking to?" # said the King, going up to Alice
"The king was looking at the Cat’s head with great curiosity."
alice "It’s a friend of mine—a Cheshire Cat, allow me to introduce it."
king "I don’t like the look of it at all, however, it may kiss my hand if it likes."
cat "I’d rather not."
king "Don’t be impertinent, and don’t look at me like that!"
"He got behind Alice as he spoke."
alice "A cat may look at a king, I’ve read that in some book, but I don’t remember where."
king "Well, it must be removed."
"The King called the Queen, who was passing at the moment:"
king "My dear! I wish you would have this cat removed!"
"The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great or small."
queen "Off with his head!"
"She said, without even looking round."
king "I’ll fetch the executioner myself." # said the King eagerly, and he hurried off.
"Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game was going on, as she heard the Queen’s voice in the distance, screaming with passion."
"She had already heard her sentence three of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or not."
"So she went in search of her hedgehog."
"The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog, which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the other:"
"The only difficulty was, that her flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up into a tree."
"By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back, the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight."
alice "(But it doesn’t matter much, as all the arches are gone from this side of the ground)"
"So she tucked it away under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for a little more conversation with her friend."
"When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to find quite a large crowd collected round it: there was a dispute going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent, and looked very uncomfortable."
"The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her, though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said."
"The executioner’s argument was, that you couldn’t cut off a head unless there was a body to cut it off from: that he had never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn’t going to begin at his time of life."
"The King’s argument was, that anything that had a head could be beheaded, and that you weren’t to talk nonsense."
"The Queen’s argument was, that if something wasn’t done about it in less than no time she’d have everybody executed, all round."
"(It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so grave and anxious)"
alice "It belongs to the Duchess: you’d better ask her about it."
queen "She’s in prison, fetch her here."
"And the executioner went off like an arrow."
"The Cat’s head began fading away the moment he was gone, and, by the time he had come back with the Duchess, it had entirely disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game."
"Chapter IX: The Mock Turtle's Story"
duchess "You can’t think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old thing!"
"The Duchess tucked her arm affectionately into Alice’s, and they walked off together."
"Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had made her so savage when they met in the kitchen."
alice "(When I’m a Duchess, I won’t have any pepper in my kitchen at all)"
alice "(Soup does very well without—Maybe it’s always pepper that makes people hot-tempered, and vinegar that makes them sour—and camomile that makes them bitter—and—and barley-sugar and such things that make children sweet-tempered)"
alice "(I only wish people knew that: then they wouldn’t be so stingy about it, you know—)"
"She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear."
duchess "You’re thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you forget to talk. I can’t tell you just now what the moral of that is, but I shall remember it in a bit."
alice "Perhaps it hasn’t one."
duchess "Tut, tut, child!"
duchess "Everything’s got a moral, if only you can find it."
"And she squeezed herself up closer to Alice’s side as she spoke."
"Alice did not much like keeping so close to her: first, because the Duchess was very ugly; and secondly, because she was exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice’s shoulder, and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin."
alice "The game’s going on rather better now."
duchess "’Tis so, and the moral of that is—‘Oh, ’tis love, ’tis love, that makes the world go round!’"
alice "Somebody said, that it’s done by everybody minding their own business!"
duchess "Ah, well! It means much the same thing, and the moral of that is—‘Take care of the sense, and the sounds will take care of themselves’."
"The Duchess started digging her sharp little chin into Alice’s shoulder."
alice "(How fond she is of finding morals in things!)"
"..."
duchess "I dare say you’re wondering why I don’t put my arm round your waist, the reason is, that I’m doubtful about the temper of your flamingo. Shall I try the experiment?"
alice "He might bite." # Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all anxious to have the experiment tried.
"Alice did not feel at all anxious to have the experiment tried."
duchess "Very true, flamingoes and mustard both bite. And the moral of that is—‘Birds of a feather flock together’."
alice "Only mustard isn’t a bird."
duchess "Right, as usual, what a clear way you have of putting things!"
alice "It’s a mineral, I think."
duchess "Of course it is, there’s a large mustard-mine near here."
"The Duchess seemed ready to agree to everything that Alice said."
duchess "And the moral of that is—‘The more there is of mine, the less there is of yours’."
alice "Oh, I know!"
alice "It’s a vegetable. It doesn’t look like one, but it is."
duchess "I quite agree with you, and the moral of that is—‘Be what you would seem to be’"
duchess "—or if you’d like it put more simply—‘Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you were or might have been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared to them to be otherwise’."
alice "I think I should understand that better, if I had it written down: but I can’t quite follow it as you say it."
duchess "That’s nothing to what I could say if I chose."
alice "Pray don’t trouble yourself to say it any longer than that."
duchess "Oh, don’t talk about trouble!"
duchess "I make you a present of everything I’ve said as yet."
alice "(A cheap sort of present!)"
alice "(I’m glad they don’t give birthday presents like that!)"
"She did not venture to say it out loud."
duchess "Thinking again?"
"The Duchess asked, with another dig of her sharp little chin."
alice "I’ve a right to think."
"She was beginning to feel a little worried."
duchess "Just about as much right, as pigs have to fly; and the m—"
"But here, to Alice’s great surprise, the Duchess’s voice died away, even in the middle of her favourite word ‘moral’ and the arm that was linked into hers began to tremble."
"Alice looked up, and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded, frowning like a thunderstorm."
duchess "A fine day, your Majesty!" # the Duchess began in a low, weak voice.
queen "Now, I give you fair warning, either you or your head must be off, and that in about half no time! Take your choice!"
"The Queen was stamping on the ground as she spoke."
"The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment."
queen "Let’s go on with the game."
"The Queen said to Alice; and Alice was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her back to the croquet-ground."
"The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen’s absence, and were resting in the shade: however, the moment they saw her, they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a moment’s delay would cost them their lives."
"All the time they were playing the Queen never left off quarrelling with the other players, and shouting “Off with his head!” or “Off with her head!”."
"Those whom she sentenced were taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and under sentence of execution."
"Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to Alice:"
queen "Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?"
alice "No, I don’t even know what a Mock Turtle is."
queen "It’s the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from."
alice "I never saw one, or heard of one."
queen "Come on, then, and he shall tell you his history."
"As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low voice, to the company generally:"
king "You are all pardoned."
alice "(Come, that’s a good thing!)"
"Alice had felt quite unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered."
"They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the sun."
queen "Up, lazy thing!"
queen "And take this young lady to see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history."
queen "I must go back and see after some executions I have ordered."
"She walked off, leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon."
"Alice did not quite like the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage Queen: so she waited."
"The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes: then it watched the Queen till she was out of sight: then it chuckled."
gryphon "What fun!"
alice "What is the fun?"
gryphon "Why, she. It’s all her fancy, that: they never executes nobody, you know. Come on!"
alice "(Everybody says ‘come on!’ here. I never was so ordered about in all my life, never!)"
"They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and, as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart would break."
"She pitied him deeply."
alice "What is his sorrow?"
gryphon "It’s all his fancy, that: he hasn’t got no sorrow, you know. Come on!"
"So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with large eyes full of tears, but said nothing."
gryphon "This here young lady, she wants for to know your history, she do."
mock "I’ll tell it her, sit down, both of you, and don’t speak a word till I’ve finished."
"So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes."
"..."
alice "I don’t see how he can ever finish, if he doesn’t begin."
"But she waited patiently."
mock "Once, *deep sigh* I was a real Turtle."
"These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only by an occasional exclamation of:"
gryphon "Hjckrrh!"
"And the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle."
"Alice was very nearly getting up and saying, “Thank you, sir, for your interesting story”, but she could not help thinking there must be more to come, so she sat still and said nothing."
mock "When we were little, we went to school in the sea."
mock "The master was an old Turtle—we used to call him Tortoise—"
alice "Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn’t one?"
mock "We called him Tortoise because he taught us, really you are very dull!" # angrily
gryphon "You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple question."
"They both sat silent and looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth."
"At last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle:"
gryphon "Drive on, old fellow! Don’t be all day about it!"
mock "Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn’t believe it—"
alice "I never said I didn’t!"
mock "You did."
gryphon "Hold your tongue!"
"..."
mock "We had the best of educations—in fact, we went to school every day—"
alice "I’ve been to a day-school, too, you needn’t be so proud as all that."
mock "With extras?"
alice "Yes, we learned French and music."
mock "And washing?"
alice "Certainly not!"
mock "Ah! then yours wasn’t a really good school."
mock "Now at ours they had at the end of the bill, ‘French, music, and washing—extra’."
alice "You couldn’t have wanted it much, living at the bottom of the sea."
mock "I couldn’t afford to learn it. I only took the regular course."
alice "What was that?"
mock "Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with, and then the different branches of Arithmetic—Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision."
alice "I never heard of ‘Uglification’. What is it?"
"The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise."
gryphon "What! Never heard of uglifying!"
gryphon "You know what to beautify is, I suppose?"
alice "Yes, it means to make anything prettier." # doubtfully
gryphon "Well, then, if you don’t know what to uglify is, you are a simpleton."
"Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about it, so she turned to the Mock Turtle:"
alice "What else had you to learn?"
mock "Well, there was Mystery, ancient and modern, with Seaography: then Drawling—the Drawling-master was an old conger-eel, that used to come once a week: he taught us Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils."
alice "What was that like?"
mock "Well, I can’t show it you myself."
mock "I’m too stiff. And the Gryphon never learnt it."
gryphon "Hadn’t time, I went to the Classics master, though. He was an old crab, he was."
mock "I never went to him, he taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say." # with a sigh
gryphon "So he did, so he did."
"They both sighed and hid their faces in their paws."
alice "And how many hours a day did you do lessons?"
mock "Ten hours the first day, nine the next, and so on."
alice "What a curious plan!"
gryphon "That’s the reason they’re called lessons, because they lessen from day to day."
"This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a little before she made her next remark."
alice "Then the eleventh day must have been a holiday?"
mock "Of course it was."
alice "And how did you manage on the twelfth?" # eagerly
gryphon "That’s enough about lessons, tell her something about the games now."
"Chapter X: The Lobster Quadrille"
"The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper across his eyes."
"He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for a minute or two sobs choked his voice."
gryphon "Same as if he had a bone in his throat."
"The gryphon started shaking him and punching him in the back."
"At last the Mock Turtle recovered his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went on again:"
mock "You may not have lived much under the sea—"
alice "I haven’t."
mock "And perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster—"
alice "I once tasted—" #  but checked herself hastily, and said
alice "No, never."
mock "—so you can have no idea what a delightful thing a Lobster Quadrille is!"
alice "No, indeed. What sort of a dance is it?"
gryphon "Why, you first form into a line along the sea-shore—"
mock "Two lines!" # cried the mock turtle
mock "Seals, turtles, salmon, and so on; then, when you’ve cleared all the jelly-fish out of the way—"
gryphon "That generally takes some time."
mock "—you advance twice—"
gryphon "Each with a lobster as a partner!"
mock "Of course, advance twice, set to partners—"
gryphon "—change lobsters, and retire in same order."
mock "Then, you know, you throw the—"
gryphon "The lobsters!"
mock "—as far out to sea as you can—"
gryphon "Swim after them!"
mock "Turn a somersault in the sea!"
gryphon "Change lobsters again!"
mock "Back to land again, and that’s all the first figure."
"The two creatures, who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice."
alice "It must be a very pretty dance." # timidly
mock "Would you like to see a little of it?"
alice "Very much indeed."
"The mock turtle turned to the gryphon:" # added
mock "Come, let’s try the first figure!"
mock "We can do without lobsters, you know. Which shall sing?"
gryphon "Oh, you sing. I’ve forgotten the words."
"So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now and then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and waving their forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle sang this, very slowly and sadly:—"
mock " “Will you walk a little faster?” said a whiting to a snail.
mock " See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
mock " Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, will you join the dance?
mock " “You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
mock " But the snail replied “Too far, too far!” and gave a look askance—
mock " Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join the dance.
mock " “What matters it how far we go?” his scaly friend replied.
mock " The further off from England the nearer is to France—
mock " Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, will you join the dance?
alice "Thank you, it’s a very interesting dance to watch."
"Alice was feeling very glad that it was over at last."
alice "And I do so like that curious song about the whiting!"
mock "Oh, as to the whiting, they—you’ve seen them, of course?"
alice "Yes, I’ve often seen them at dinn—"
"She checked herself hastily."
mock "I don’t know where Dinn may be, but if you’ve seen them so often, of course you know what they’re like."
alice "I believe so."
alice "They have their tails in their mouths—and they’re all over crumbs."
mock "You’re wrong about the crumbs, crumbs would all wash off in the sea."
mock "But they have their tails in their mouths; and the reason is— *yawn* —Tell her about the reason and all that."
gryphon "The reason is, that they would go with the lobsters to the dance."
gryphon "So they got thrown out to sea."
gryphon "So they had to fall a long way."
gryphon "So they got their tails fast in their mouths."
gryphon "So they couldn’t get them out again."
gryphon "That’s all."
alice "Thank you, it’s very interesting. I never knew so much about a whiting before."
gryphon "I can tell you more than that, if you like. Do you know why it’s called a whiting?"
alice "I never thought about it. Why?"
gryphon "It does the boots and shoes." # solemnly
"Alice was thoroughly puzzled."
alice "Does the boots and shoes!?" # wondering
gryphon "Why, what are your shoes done with? I mean, what makes them so shiny?"
"Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she gave her answer."
alice "They’re done with blacking, I believe."
gryphon "Boots and shoes under the sea, are done with a whiting. Now you know." # deep voice
alice "And what are they made of?" # asked with great curiosity
gryphon "Soles and eels, of course, any shrimp could have told you that."
alice "If I’d been the whiting, I’d have said to the porpoise, ‘Keep back, please: we don’t want you with us!’" # still in thoughts
mock "They were obliged to have him with them, no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise."
alice "Wouldn’t it really?" # surprised
mock "Of course not, why, if a fish came to me, and told me he was going a journey, I should say ‘With what porpoise?’"
alice "Don’t you mean ‘purpose’?"
mock "*offended* I mean what I say."
gryphon "Come, let’s hear some of your adventures."
alice "I could tell you my adventures—beginning from this morning, but it’s no use going back to yesterday, because I was a different person then."
mock "Explain all that."
gryphon "No, no! The adventures first, explanations take such a dreadful time." # impatient
"So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when she first saw the White Rabbit."
"She was a little nervous about it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so very wide, but she gained courage as she went on."
"Her listeners were perfectly quiet till she got to the part about her repeating “You are old, Father William” to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said:"
mock "That’s very curious."
gryphon "It’s all about as curious as it can be."
mock "It all came different!"
mock "I should like to hear her try and repeat something now. Tell her to begin."
"He looked at the Gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice."
gryphon "Stand up and repeat ‘Tis the voice of the sluggard’"
alice "(How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat lessons!)"
alice "(I might as well be at school at once)"
"However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was saying, and the words came very queer indeed:—"
alice "’Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
gryphon "That’s different from what I used to say when I was a child."
mock "Well, I never heard it before, but it sounds uncommon nonsense."
"Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her hands, wondering if anything would ever happen in a natural way again."
mock "I should like to have it explained."
gryphon "She can’t explain it. Go on with the next verse."
mock "But about his toes?" # persistet
mock "How could he turn them out with his nose, you know?"
alice "It’s the first position in dancing."
"She was dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the subject."
gryphon "Go on with the next verse, it begins ‘I passed by his garden’."
"Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would all come wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:—"
alice "I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
alice "When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
mock "What is the use of repeating all that stuff, if you don’t explain it as you go on? It’s by far the most confusing thing I ever heard!"
gryphon "Yes, I think you’d better leave off."
"Alice was only too glad to do so."
gryphon "Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?"
gryphon "Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you a song?"
alice "Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind." # alice replied eagerly
gryphon "Hm! No accounting for tastes! Sing her ‘Turtle Soup’, will you, old fellow?"
"The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes choked with sobs, to sing this:—"
mock "Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,Waiting in a hot tureen!"
mock "Who for such dainties would not stoop?Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!"
mock "Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
mock "Soo—oop of the e—e—evening,
mock "Beautiful Soup! Who cares for fish,
mock "Who would not give all else for two p
mock "Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
mock "Soo—oop of the e—e—evening,
gryphon "Chorus again!" # cried
"The Mock Turtle had just begun to repeat it, when a cry of “The trial’s beginning!” was heard in the distance."
gryphon "Come on!" # cried
"The Gryphon took Alice by the hand, and hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song."
alice "What trial is it?"
"Alice panted as she ran."
gryphon "Come on!"
"He ran faster, while more and more faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the melancholy words:—"
mock "Soo—oop of the e—e—evening,
"Chapter XI: Who Stole the Tarts?"
"The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when they arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them—all sorts of little birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards:"
"The Knave was standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on each side to guard him; and near the King was the White Rabbit, with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll of parchment in the other."
"In the very middle of the court was a table, with a large dish of tarts upon it: they looked so good, that it made Alice quite hungry to look at them—"
alice "(I wish they’d get the trial done and hand round the refreshments!)"
"But there seemed to be no chance of this, so she began looking at everything about her, to pass away the time."
"Alice had never been in a court of justice before, but she had read about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find that she knew the name of nearly everything there."
alice "(That’s the judge, because of his great wig."
"The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown over the wig, he did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly not becoming." # (look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he did it,)
alice "(And that’s the jury-box and those twelve creatures—"
"(she was obliged to say “creatures,” you see, because some of them were animals, and some were birds)"
alice "(I suppose they are the jurors)"
"She said this last word two or three times over to herself, being rather proud of it: for she thought, and rightly too, that very few little girls of her age knew the meaning of it at all."
"However, “jury-men” would have done just as well."
"The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates."
alice "*whispering* What are they doing? They can’t have anything to put down yet, before the trial’s begun." # Alice whispered to the Gryphon. “”
gryphon "*whispering* They’re putting down their names, for fear they should forget them before the end of the trial."
alice "Stupid things!" # Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but she stopped hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out,
rabbit "Silence in the court!"
"The King put on his spectacles and looked anxiously round, to make out who was talking."
"Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their shoulders, that all the jurors were writing down “stupid things!” on their slates, and she could even make out that one of them didn’t know how to spell “stupid” and that he had to ask his neighbour to tell him."
alice "(A nice muddle their slates’ll be in before the trial’s over!)"
"One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked."
"This of course, Alice could not stand, and she went round the court and got behind him, and very soon found an opportunity of taking it away."
"She did it so quickly that the poor little juror (it was Bill, the Lizard) could not make out at all what had become of it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was obliged to write with one finger for the rest of the day; and this was of very little use, as it left no mark on the slate."
king "Herald, read the accusation!"
"On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and then unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:—"
rabbit "The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,
king "Consider your verdict."
rabbit "Not yet, not yet! There’s a great deal to come before that!"
king "Call the first witness."
"The White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet."
rabbit "First witnes!"
"The first witness was the Hatter."
"He came in with a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other."
hatter "I beg pardon, your Majesty, for bringing these in: but I hadn’t quite finished my tea when I was sent for."
king "You ought to have finished. When did you begin?"
"The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse."
hatter "Fourteenth of March, I think it was."
hare "Fifteenth."
dormouse "Sixteenth."
king "Write that down."
"The jury eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then added them up, and reduced the answer to shillings and pence."
king "Take off your hat."
hatter "It isn’t mine."
king "Stolen!"
"The king turned to the jury, who instantly made a memorandum of the fact."
hatter "I keep them to sell. I’ve none of my own. I’m a hatter."
"Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted."
king "Give your evidence and don’t be nervous, or I’ll have you executed on the spot."
"This did not seem to encourage the witness at all: he kept shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the bread-and-butter."
"Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was: she was beginning to grow larger again, and she thought at first she would get up and leave the court; but on second thoughts she decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for her."
dormouse "I wish you wouldn’t squeeze so. I can hardly breathe." # dormouse whi is sitting next to her
alice "I can’t help it, I’m growing." # meekly
dormouse "You’ve no right to grow here..."
alice "Don’t talk nonsense, you know you’re growing too."
dormouse "Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace, not in that ridiculous fashion."
"He got up very sulkily and crossed over to the other side of the court."
"All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the Hatter, and, just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to one of the officers of the court:"
queen "Bring me the list of the singers in the last concert!"
"On which the wretched Hatter trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off."
king "*angry* Give your evidence, or I’ll have you executed, whether you’re nervous or not."
hatter "*trembling* I’m a poor man, your Majesty, —and I hadn’t begun my tea—not above a week or so—and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin—and the twinkling of the tea—"
king "The twinkling of the what?"
hatter "It began with the tea."
king "Of course twinkling begins with a T!"
king "Do you take me for a dunce? Go on!"
hatter "I’m a poor man, and most things twinkled after that—only the March Hare said—"
hare "I didn’t!" # interrupted in great hurry
hatter "You did!"
hare "I deny it!"
king "He denies it, —leave out that part."
hatter "Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said—"
"The Hatter went on, looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too: but the Dormouse denied nothing, being fast asleep."
hatter "After that, I cut some more bread-and-butter—"
lory "But what did the Dormouse say?" # one of the jurors
hatter "That I can’t remember."
king "You must remember, or I’ll have you executed."
"The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter, and went down on one knee."
hatter "I’m a poor man, your Majesty."
king "You’re a very poor speaker."
"Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court."
"(As that is rather a hard word, I will just explain to you how it was done. They had a large canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings: into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat upon it)"
alice "(I’m glad I’ve seen that done. I’ve so often read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, “There was some attempts at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court,” and I never understood what it meant till now)"
king "If that’s all you know about it, you may stand down."
hatter "I can’t go no lower, I’m on the floor, as it is."
king "Then you may sit down."
"Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed."
alice "(Come, that finished the guinea-pigs! Now we shall get on better)"
hatter "I’d rather finish my tea."
"The hatter looked anxiously at the Queen, who was reading the list of singers."
king "You may go."
"The Hatter hurriedly left the court, without even waiting to put his shoes on."
queen "—and just take his head off outside!" # the Queen added to one of the officers:
"But the Hatter was out of sight before the officers could get to the door."
"..."
king "Call the next witness!"
"The next witness was the Duchess’s cook."
"She carried the pepper-box in her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before she got into the court, by the way the people near the door began sneezing all at once."
king "Give your evidence."
cook "Shan’t."
"The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit:"
rabbit "*whispering* Your Majesty must cross-examine this witness."
king "Well, if I must, I must."
"After folding his arms and frowning at the cook till his eyes were nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice:"
king "What are tarts made of?"
cook "Pepper, mostly."
dormouse "Treacle." # sleepy voice
queen "*shriek* Collar that Dormouse! Behead that Dormouse! Turn that Dormouse out of court! Suppress him! Pinch him! Off with his whiskers!"
"For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the Dormouse turned out, and, by the time they had settled down again, the cook had disappeared."
king "Never mind!" # said the King, with an air of great relief.
king "Call the next witness."
"And he added in an undertone to the Queen:"
king "Really, my dear, you must cross-examine the next witness. It quite makes my forehead ache!"
"Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list, feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like."
alice "(They haven’t got much evidence yet)"
"Imagine her surprise, when the White Rabbit read out, at the top of his shrill little voice, the name:"
rabbit "Alice!"
"Chapter XII: Alice's Evidence"
alice "Here!"
"Alice forgot in the flurry of the moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she jumped up in such a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with the edge of her skirt, upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads of the crowd below, and there they lay sprawling about, reminding her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset the week before."
alice "Oh, I beg your pardon!"
"She began picking them up again as quickly as she could, for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head, and she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once and put back into the jury-box, or they would die."
king "The trial cannot proceed, until all the jurymen are back in their proper places." # tone of great dismay
king "All!"
"He repeated the last word with great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as he said so."
"Alice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she had put the Lizard in head downwards, and the poor little thing was waving its tail about in a melancholy way, being quite unable to move."
"She soon got it out again, and put it right."
alice "(not that it signifies much)"
alice "(I should think it would be quite as much use in the trial one way up as the other)"
"As soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of being upset, and their slates and pencils had been found and handed back to them, they set to work very diligently to write out a history of the accident, all except the Lizard, who seemed too much overcome to do anything but sit with its mouth open, gazing up into the roof of the court."
king "What do you know about this business?"
alice "Nothing."
king "Nothing whatever?" # persisted the King.
alice "Nothing whatever."
king "That’s very important."
"The king turned to the jury."
"They were just beginning to write this down on their slates, when the White Rabbit interrupted:"
"He said in a very respectful tone, but frowning and making faces at him as he spoke."
king "Unimportant, of course, I meant."
"The King  went on to himself in an undertone:"
king "(important—unimportant—unimportant—important—)"
"As if he were trying which word sounded best."
"Some of the jury wrote it down “important,” and some “unimportant.”"
"Alice could see this, as she was near enough to look over their slates."
alice "(But it doesn’t matter a bit...)"
"At this moment the King, who had been for some time busily writing in his note-book, cackled out:"
king "Silence!"
"And he read out from his book:"
king "Rule Forty-two. All persons more than a mile high have to leave the court."
"Everybody looked at Alice."
alice "I’m not a mile high."
king "You are."
queen "Nearly two miles high."
alice "Well, I shan’t go, at any rate, besides, that’s not a regular rule: you invented it just now."
king "It’s the oldest rule in the book."
alice "Then it ought to be Number One."
"The King turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily."
king "Consider your verdict."
"He said to the jury, in a low, trembling voice."
rabbit "There’s more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty."
"The White Rabbit was jumping up in a great hurry."
rabbit "This paper has just been picked up."
queen "What’s in it?"
rabbit "I haven’t opened it yet, but it seems to be a letter, written by the prisoner to—to somebody."
king "It must have been that, unless it was written to nobody, which isn’t usual, you know."
bill "Who is it directed to?" # said one of the jurymen.
rabbit "It isn’t directed at all, in fact, there’s nothing written on the outside."
"He unfolded the paper as he spoke."
rabbit "It isn’t a letter, after all: it’s a set of verses."
lory "Are they in the prisoner’s handwriting?" # asked another of the jurymen.
rabbit "No, they’re not, and that’s the queerest thing about it."
"(The jury all looked puzzled)"
king "He must have imitated somebody else’s hand."
"(The jury all brightened up again)"
knave "Please your Majesty, I didn’t write it, and they can’t prove I did: there’s no name signed at the end."
king "If you didn’t sign it, that only makes the matter worse. You must have meant some mischief, or else you’d have signed your name like an honest man."
"There was a general clapping of hands at this: it was the first really clever thing the King had said that day."
queen "That proves his guilt."
alice "It proves nothing of the sort!"
alice "Why, you don’t even know what they’re about!"
king "Read them."
"The White Rabbit put on his spectacles."
rabbit "Where shall I begin, please your Majesty?"
king "Begin at the beginning, and go on till you come to the end: then stop."
rabbit "They told me you had been to her,And mentioned me to him:She gave me a good character,But said I could not swim."
rabbit "He sent them word I had not gone(We know it to be true):If she should push the matter on,What would become of you?"
rabbit "I gave her one, they gave him two,You gave us three or more;They all returned from him to you,Though they were mine before."
rabbit "If I or she should chance to beInvolved in this affair,He trusts to you to set them free,Exactly as we were."
rabbit "My notion was that you had been(Before she had this fit)An obstacle that came betweenHim, and ourselves, and it."
rabbit "Don’t let him know she liked them best,For this must ever beA secret, kept from all the rest,Between yourself and me."
king "That’s the most important piece of evidence we’ve heard yet." #,” said the King, rubbing his hands;
king "So now let the jury—"
alice "If any one of them can explain it I’ll give him sixpence. I don’t believe there’s an atom of meaning in it."
"(she had grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn’t a bit afraid of interrupting him)"
"The jury all wrote down on their slates: “She doesn’t believe there’s an atom of meaning in it”, but none of them attempted to explain the paper."
king "If there’s no meaning in it, that saves a world of trouble, you know, as we needn’t try to find any."
king "And yet I don’t know..."
"He went on, spreading out the verses on his knee, and looking at them with one eye."
king "I seem to see some meaning in them, after all. “—said I could not swim—” you can’t swim, can you?"
"He turned to the Knave."
"The Knave shook his head sadly."
knave "Do I look like it?"
"(He certainly did not, being made entirely of cardboard)"
king "All right, so far."
"The King went on muttering over the verses to himself:"
king "‘We know it to be true—’ that’s the jury, of course—‘I gave her one, they gave him two—’ why, that must be what he did with the tarts, you know—” "
alice "But, it goes on ‘they all returned from him to you’"
king "Why, there they are!"
"The King triumphantly pointed to the tarts on the table."
king "Nothing can be clearer than that. Then again—‘before she had this fit—’ you never had fits, my dear, I think?"
queen "Never!"
"Said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the Lizard as she spoke."
"(The unfortunate little Bill had left off writing on his slate with one finger, as he found it made no mark; but he now hastily began again, using the ink, that was trickling down his face, as long as it lasted)"
king "Then the words don’t fit you."
"The King was looking round the court with a smile."
"..."
"There was a dead silence."
king "*offended* It’s a pun!"
"Everybody laughed."
king "Let the jury consider their verdict."
queen "No, no! Sentence first—verdict afterwards."
alice "Stuff and nonsense!"
alice "The idea of having the sentence first!"
queen "Hold your tongue!"
"The queen turned purple."
alice "I won’t!"
queen "Off with her head!"
"The Queen shouted at the top of her voice."
"Nobody moved."
alice "Who cares for you?"
"(Alice had grown to her full size by this time)"
alice "You’re nothing but a pack of cards!"
"At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying down upon her: she gave a little scream, half of fright and half of anger, and tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on the bank, with her head in the lap of her sister, who was gently brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the trees upon her face."
sister "Wake up, Alice dear!"
sister "Why, what a long sleep you’ve had!"
alice "Oh, I’ve had such a curious dream!"
"She told her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and when she had finished, her sister kissed her."
sister "It was a curious dream, dear, certainly: but now run in to your tea; it’s getting late."
"So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been."
"But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:—"
"First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes were looking up into hers."
"She could hear the very tones of her voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back the wandering hair that would always get into her eyes."
"And still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place around her became alive with the strange creatures of her little sister’s dream."
"The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried by."
"The frightened Mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool."
"She could hear the rattle of the teacups as the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal, and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution."
"Once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the Duchess’s knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it."
"Once more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard’s slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs, filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable Mock Turtle."
"So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and all would change to dull reality."
"The grass would be only rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the reeds."
"The rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-bells, and the Queen’s shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd boy."
"And the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and all the other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the confused clamour of the busy farm-yard."
"While the lowing of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle’s heavy sobs."
"Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and loving heart of her childhood:"
"And how she would gather about her other little children, and make their eyes bright and eager with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of Wonderland of long ago: and how she would feel with all their simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys, remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days."
"The End."
